# Snowball Bot configuration

Snowball Bot configuration files are read by `init` script.

This instruction is for default `init` script, which you may find in `src/init.ts`.

---

To configure how Snowball Bot or plugins will perform, go to `out/config` directory.

Configuration files are named `configuration.{environment}.json`.

Where `{environment}` is a value of `NODE_ENV` environment variable:

- `production`
- `development`
- custom value?

If our `init` file fails to find configuration for the current environment, it tries to load default `configuration.json` file.

So if you don't care about `NODE_ENV`, you may have just one configuration file.

- Load failure in that case leads Snowball to exit with error code.

---

To see example of configuration, see `configuration.example.json`.

## Configuration structure

The configuration file is JSON, object with such keys:

- **`name`** ([`string`][string]): Name of the bot, used for output in the console
- **`token`** ([`string`][string]): Bot authorization token.

  You can obtain it on [My Apps](https://discordapp.com/developers/applications/me) page of Discord Developers site
- **`modules`** ([`IModuleInfo[]`](./src/types/ModuleLoader.ts#L6)): Array of objects with information about a module to register
  - `name` ([`string`][string]): Name of a module
  - `path` ([`string`][string]): Absolute path from `cogs` directory
  - `options` ([`any`][any]): Any options for the module
- **`autoLoad`** ([`string`][string]): Array of names of plugins which should be automatically loaded after registration, be sure you typing their names right: case matters, it's not path.
- **`botOwner`** ([`string`][string]): Your (owner) Discord ID. It grants you permission to call `eval` command and other stuff which can do damage to the bot or your server if you type wrong ID here
- **`localizerOptions`** ([`ILocalizerOptions`](./src/types/Localizer.ts#L7)): Configuration of Localizer (aka `i18n settings`)
  - `languages` ([`string[]`][string]): Languages code (file names, e.g. `en-US`)
  - `default_language` ([`string`][string]): Default language code (it'll be used for new servers)
  - `source_language` ([`string`][string]): Source language code (it'll be used as fallback if nor language nor default language contain such string)
  - `directory` ([`string`][string]): Relative path from `out` directory
  - `disable_coverage_log` ([`boolean`](boolean), **optional**): Disables "Translation Coverage" log which shows all untranslated strings. That still doesn't disable information of coverage percents
- **`shardingOptions`**
  - `enabled` ([`boolean`][boolean]): Enabling of sharding mode
  - `shards` ([`number`][number]): Number of shards to start
- **`ravenUrl`** ([`string`][string], **optional**): Your URL for Raven generated by [Sentry.io][sentry], this allows to capture all the errors in more nicer look

[string]:https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String
[boolean]:https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean
[number]:https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number
[any]:https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/basic-types.html#any
[sentry]:https://sentry.io/
